We've already learned a lot
about working with strings.
This includes working with their
positional indices and slicing them.
In the previous video,
we applied these to extract the first
three digits from a list of IP addresses.
In this video,
we're going to focus on a more advanced
way to search through strings.
We'll learn about searching for patterns
in strings through regular expressions.
A regular expression, shortened to regex,
is a sequence of characters
that forms a pattern.
This pattern can be used when
searching within log files.
We can use them to search for
any kind of pattern.
For example, we can find all strings
that start with a certain prefix,
or we can find all strings
that are a certain length.
We can apply this to a security
context in a variety of ways.
For example, let's say we needed to find
all IP addresses with a network ID
of 184. Regular expressions would allow us
to efficiently search for this pattern.
We'll examine another example
throughout this video.
Let's say that we want to extract all
the email addresses containing a log.
If we try to do this
through the index method,
we would need the exact email
addresses we were searching for.
As security analysts,
we rarely have that kind of information.
But if we use a regular
expression that tells
Python how an email address is structured,
it would return all the strings that have
the same elements as an email address.
Even if we were given a log file
with thousands of lines and
entries, we could extract every
email in the file by searching for
the structure of an email address
through a regular expression.
We wouldn't need to know
the specific emails to extract them.
Let's explore the regular expression
symbols that we need to do this.
To begin, let's learn about the plus sign.
The plus sign is a regular expression
symbol that represents one or
more occurrences of a specific character.
Let's explain that through
an example pattern.
The regular expression pattern a+
matches a string of any length
in which "a" is repeated.
For example, just a single "a",
three "a's" in a row, or
five "a's" in a row.
It could even be 1000 "a's" in a row.
We can start working with a quick example
to see which strings this pattern would
extract.
Let's start with this
string of device IDs.
These are all the instances of the letter
"a" written once or multiple times in a row.
The first instance has one "a",
the second has two "a's",
the third one has one "a", and
the fourth has three "a's".
So, if we told Python to find matches
to the a+ sign regular expression,
it would return this list of "a's".
The other building block we
need is the \w symbol.
This matches with any
alphanumeric character, but
it doesn't match symbols. "1", "k", and
"i" are just three examples
of what "\w" matches.
Regular expressions can easily
be combined to allow for
even more patterns in a search.
Before we apply this to our email context,
let's explore
the patterns we can search for
if we combine the "\w" with the plus sign.
"\w" matches any alphanumeric character, and
the plus sign matches any number of
occurrences of the character before it.
This means that
the combination of "\w+"
matches an alphanumeric
string of any length.
"\w" provides flexibility in the
alphanumeric characters that this regular
expression matches,
and the plus sign provides flexibility in
the length of the string that it matches.
The strings "192", "abc123", and
"security" are just
three possible strings
that match to "\w+".
Now let's apply these to extracting
email addresses from a log.
Email addresses consist of text
separated by certain symbols,
like the @ symbol and the period.
Let's learn how we can represent
this as a regular expression.
To start, let's think about the format
of a typical email address;
for example, user1@email1.com.
The first segment of an email address
contains alphanumeric characters,
and the number of alphanumeric
characters may vary in length.
We can use our regular
expression "\w+" for
this portion to match to
an alphanumeric string of any length.
The next segment in an email
address is the @ symbol.
This segment is always present.
We'll enter this directly in our regular
expression. Including this is essential
for ensuring that Python distinguishes
email addresses from other strings.
After the @ symbol is the domain name.
Just like the first segment, this one
varies depending on the email address,
but it always contains
alphanumeric characters, so
we can use "\w+"
again to allow for this variation.
Next, just like the @ symbol,
a period is always part of an email
address. But unlike the @ symbol,
in regular expressions,
the period has a special meaning.
For this reason,
we need to use backslash period here.
When we add a backslash in front of it,
we let Python know that we are not
intending to use it as an operator,
and that our pattern should
include a period in this location.
For the last segment,
we can also use "\w+".
This final part of an email
address is often "com" but
might be other strings like "net."
When we put the pieces together,
we get the regular expression we'll use
to find email addresses in our row.
This pattern will match
all email addresses.
It will exclude everything
else in our string.
This is because we've
included the @ symbol and
the period where they appear in
the structure of an email address.
Let's bring this into Python.
We'll use regular expressions to
extract email addresses from a string.
Regular expressions can be used when
the re module is imported into Python,
so we begin with that step. Later,
we'll learn how to import and
open files like logs.
But for now, we've restored our log
as a string variable named email_log.
Because this is a multi-line string,
we're using three sets of quotation
marks instead of just one.
Next, we'll apply the findall() function
from the re module to a regular
expression. re.findall() returns a list
of matches to a regular expression.
Let's use this with the regular expression
we created earlier for email addresses.
The first argument is the pattern
that we want to match.
Notice that we place
it in quotation marks.
The second argument indicates
where to search for the pattern.
In this case, we're searching through
the string contained within the email log
variable.
When we run this, we get a list
of all the emails in the string.
Imagine applying this to a log with
thousands of entries. Pretty useful,
right?
This was just an introduction to
the power of regular expressions.
There are many more symbols you can use.
I encourage you to explore regular
expressions on your own and learn more.